# Membership-Online-Directory-MOD-Php-database-update

things i need to do 

1. Emails should be sent to clients a fortnight before their membership expires, so they can renew their membership. "Schedule the Script Using Cron Job" Deciding whether to use a cron job in project depends on the specific needs of project. A cron job is a way to schedule tasks to run automatically at fixed times, dates, or intervals on Unix-like systems. It's incredibly useful for automating repetitive tasks without human intervention
2. A yearly membership renewal that will cover a whole year and not just January to December. e.g. March - February or June – May.
3. No space between the names in the membership directory bio e.g. (PricelessTreasure instead of Priceless Treasure) this should be fixed.
4. Software should let autogenerated passwords be changed, and members should be able to change them to memorable passwords.
5. Prices and descriptions of membership need to be updated.
6. We should be able to download a list that will indicate active and inactive members i.e. members that have active membership or expired membership.
7. The download option should be linked to an email, so whoever is in charge of the email has access to the directory list.
8. The same admin email that will access should also have, if possible, the power to hide, make public, or delete profiles in the directory. This is essential as members sometimes sign up not realizing that their profile will be public.
9. There should be an option for members to have their membership renewed automatically on expiry either by paying the renewal fee by direct debit or by charging a saved credit or debit card used to pay for the membership subscription. The terms of use should be updated to reflect this. However, we would only want this if it can be built in a way that does not require the company to be responsible for storing the credit/debit card information.
10. On expiry of membership, the member’s profile should be removed from/not viewable or searchable in the Online Membership Directory but the details should be saved somewhere as an inactive member, so when the member decides to renew (if it is not done automatically) the member does not have to re-enter their details but simply pays the relevant membership renewal fee, log in with their existing credentials, and update their profile (if needed). In this regard, the payment system and the directory should automatically speak to each other, so that the re-activation of the profile is automatic as soon as payment has been made.
11. On renewal of membership, a duplicate entry should not be added to the online membership directory.
12. Permit members to be able to update/change their email addresses once signed in from their profile. There should, however, be protection to ensure that the email address entered is a valid one.